Interpreted And Compiled Programming Languages

A resume about them:

Interpreted Languages run through a program line by line and execute each command. 
they were once significantly slower than compiled languages. But, with the development of just-in-time compilation, that gap is shrinking.
the source code is not directly translated by the target machine. Instead, a different program, aka the interpreter, reads and executes the code.


Compiled Languages are converted directly into machine code that the processor can execute. As a result, they tend to be faster and more efficient to execute than interpreted languages. 
They also give the developer more control over hardware aspects, like memory management and CPU usage.
Compiled languages need a “build” step – they need to be manually compiled first. You need to “rebuild” the program every time you need to make a change. 


Most programming languages can have both compiled and interpreted implementations – the language itself is not necessarily compiled or interpreted.
However, for simplicity’s sake, they’re typically referred to as such. that like as intermediate languages.

Python, for example, can be executed as either a compiled program or as an interpreted language in interactive mode. On the other hand, most command line tools, CLIs, and shells can theoretically be classified as interpreted languages.


Advantages and disadvantages

Advantages of compiled languages
	Programs that are compiled into native machine code tend to be faster than interpreted code. 
	Source code is private
	Ready to run

Disadvantages of compiled languages
	Additional time needed to complete the entire compilation step before testing
	Platform dependence of the generated binary code
	Inflexible

Advantages of interpreted languages
	They tend to be more flexible, and often offer features like dynamic typing and smaller program size. 
	Easier to debug
	Simpler to test

Disadvantages of interpreted languages
	The most notable disadvantage is typical execution speed compared to compiled languages.
	Source code is public
	Interpreter required


Is Java compiled or interpreted, or both?
Java is a compiled and interpreted language, because is first compiled into bytecode which JRE can understand. ByteCode is then interpreted by the JVM making it as interpreted language.


3. Pseudocode currency converter

Starting point: START
set CostBitcoin
webiste: visite https://usd.es.currencyrate.today/btc and update the cost of the bitcoin
set AmountDollars
set ConvertDollars 
print: Ask about amount to convert
Read: Input: insert a amount
set amountDollars = Input
ConvertDollars = CostBitcoin * AmountDollars
print: the amount is ConvertDollars in BTC

